---
title: Week 23 Update
category: Draft
author: ⚡ Shockk
description: Bug fixes and performance improvements :D
---

Welcome back to another Corporeality weekly update! This week has been super productive and I'm extremely happy to announce that the performance regressions we've been seeing over the past couple of weeks are finally gone.

# Engine Performance

After painstaking debugging and performance profiling, I managed to increase performance back up to what it was before the changes to the engine core (without reverting the changes to the engine core), but wait—there's more!

I went ahead and rewrote all of the filesystem path handling code in order to improve performance in this area, and we're seeing promising results so far. At the moment it's still slightly slower than before in some scenarios, but it's a lot faster and generally tidier in other ways. This is something I'm going to iterate on, so that we can keep the new system without needing to sacrifice performance.

Finally, I noticed an area of low performance in the material drawing code, and I managed to improve this performance by 17.8%. There are still quite a few possible optimizations to be done in this area (the most critical of which will be to cache the material asset so that we don't look it up in the asset system every time we draw every object), it probably isn't worth doing too much at this stage.

# Next Steps

Moving forward, we're going to be focusing on actual gameplay features so that we can finally release the tech demo we've been talking about for months now. All of us are committed to getting this done as soon as possible, and we hope you'll continue to walk this journey with us.

Thank you all again for sticking with us, and, until next week, ch’abej chik!

###### {{ page.author }}, Lead Programmer
