---
title: Week 22 Update
category: Draft
author: ⚡ Shockk
description: Back to the drawing board...
---

Welcome back to another weekly update on Corporeality! We've been pretty busy this week, and I'm afraid it's not all been for better.

# Engine Updates

The engine core changes mentioned last week have now been completed. However, we've hit a slight snag. The engine actually runs slower with these new changes—and when I say slower, I don't mean slightly slower. We're seeing a 50% reduction in performance across the entire engine with the new engine core.

It's not all bad news, as I'm currently working on a fix for this, but it's yet another unfortunate roadblock that we have to move past. Hopefully, we'll have the performance fixes done by next week and then we can finally get back to work on the actual game.

# Ship Textures

🐰 The Rabbit has still been hard at work on the new ship textures; however, it looks like the current way the textures are being done results in a sub-optimal normal map for the look and feel we're trying to achieve. Long story short, we may need to go back to the drawing board with the ship textures in order to achieve the quality we're looking for, as all of us want to make this game the very best it can be.

# Story and Lore

🦊 The Fox is continuing to work on more story and lore for the game, expanding upon what we currently have, and we'll continue to update the info available on the website whenever we have new stuff to share!

# Next Steps

This week, we're pretty much going to be working on the same stuff as last week. Although we've hit some hard hurdles, we're committed to overcoming these and progressing with the development of the game.

Thanks again for sticking with us, and, until next week, slán leat!

###### {{ page.author }}, Lead Programmer
