---
title: Week 21 Update
category: Draft
author: ⚡ Shockk
description: Unforeseen Consequences
---

Welcome back to another weekly update on Corporeality! This week has, unfortunately, been kind of slow from the development side of things, and I'll go into some details on this.

# Engine Updates

As I mentioned, this week has been particularly slow on the programming front. The reason for this is that I've been going through a massive set of changes to the engine that are required in order for us to progress further with our intended plan. The actual change itself isn't massively complicated, but it changes the way the core of the engine works and so we're having to update literally **everything** across the engine to use the new API.

This task is nearing completion but the work remaining is by no means negligible. An unfortunate side-effect of making changes to the engine core is that we can't test whether or not any of what we're doing actually works... until it's all done... so we're likely also going to encounter some bugs once the changes have been completed.

# Next Week

I'm hoping that next week will see this work completed, leaving us well on our way to finally being able to implement the features we've been eyeing up for a couple of weeks now!

Sorry for not having much to say this week, but keep sticking with us throughout our journey and we'll continue to soldier onwards towards a playable game demo.

Thanks again—all of you—and, until next week, tschüs!

###### {{ page.author }}, Lead Programmer
