---
title: Week 45 Update
category: Draft
author: ⚡ Shockk
description: Progress happens!
---

Welcome back to another Corporeality developer update! This week, we've made a fair amount of progress in Unreal Engine and we're delighted to share a little something with you.

# Since last time

First things first, we're going to try writing a little section like this in each of our developer updates from now on. It should make it easier to digest if you're only interested in an outline of what we've done since last time.

## Breakout

* Wrote parser for custom level format
* Fixed positioning, alignment, and scale issues with brick placement
* Created and added custom sound effects for ball impacts with various surfaces
* Streamlined packaging, plugins, and blueprints
* General performance improvements and bug fixes :3

## General

* Started building a bank of instrument presets for future music creation
* Learned how to create non-linear music with FMOD

# Breakout

## Level Parser

We now have a custom file format for breakout levels, as well as a parser that reads in levels and places blocks in the right spots! Up until now, we've been restricted to generating the level on-the-fly in code, but now we'll be able to create and modify levels a lot more quickly.

Our plan for the future is to expand this format to include additional level metadata like paddle attachment side, block size, ball physics properties, and more. We also plan to create another file format to define level packs (i.e. levels that will be playable in sequence).

## Brick Placement

We spent a while this week deciding on a good size for our bricks. Although it's subject to change, we've settled on a good balance of 11 rows of bricks for the time being. It took us some time to make appropriate calculations to the point where we now have perfectly even spacing between each individual brick.

## Packaging

Building and packaging up an Unreal project isn't such a complicated thing--just click on the menu item to package it up for the appropriate platform. However, it took a fair amount of research on our part to figure out how to reduce the size and impact of our game.

One of the things we had to do was to go the list of plugins associated with our project and disable any of them that we aren't using. It sounds simple enough, but stuff like TCP and UDP networking support, which doesn't seem like it should actually do anything, actually semeed to cause Windows Firewall to prompt for a firewall exception upon first launch. For a game without any need for network play, this is obviously a no-no, so we're very happy to have found the source of this.

## Sound Effects

As a last-minute addition, the game now has custom-built sound effects that play whenever the ball hits a surface! We used a custom synth instrument for this, playing beeps at various tones depending on the surface being hit. We also have a custom death sound too, built around the same theme.

# General

## 





# Breakout - Physics

This week we've managed to implement some simple physics code that linearly morphs the speed of the ball towards a target speed, in order to try and loosely maintain that speed. Put simply, when the ball is moving too slowly or too quickly, it'll speed up or slow down to bring itself closer to its target speed once again.

This is important as it solves half of the problem where the ball can get stuck moving too slowly or in a wonky direction, making the game very frustrating as the player has to wait for the ball to finally return. The other half of this will involve applying some kind of directional impulse when the angle is too close to a direct up/down direction, although a more elegant-looking way to do this may even be to apply a little spin impulse to the ball's angular velocity.

One of the problems we're tackling currently is the way physics work in Unreal. Unfortunately, we've noticed a few issues with our current physics where the ball either bounces in weird unexpected ways or straight-up phases through objects. We have some theories for why this behaviour happens, but as of right now we're unfortunately kind of clueless on how to solve it! However, we're confident in our ability to solve this as we gain more experience working in Unreal.

# Breakout - Inspiration

Today, we jumped into two breakout-inspired games that we've played before and hold very highly by our standards -- Z-Ball and Shatter. Z-Ball is a pretty old game that I don't believe to be available online anymore, but it accomplishes the breakout aesthetic in a really nice way, with a physical spinning ball and some pretty interesting physics-based mechanics placed in many of its levels, whereas Shatter actually gives physics to all blocks in the level, allowing them to be sort of pushed and bumped around as your ball is pushed/pulled by an air sucker/blower on your paddle.

The reason we wanted to mention both of these games is simply to acknowledge the inspiration we take from each of them, their unique mechanics, and, in particular, the innovative use of physics at the core of their gameplay. As we continue to develop our breakout-inspired game, we hope to end up with gameplay that will be just as engaging as it was for us when playing these games.

# Breakout - Fun Stuff

We thought we'd share a couple of videos of our... 'progress'. Hope you enjoy!

<div class="responsive-embed widescreen">
	<iframe width="960" height="540" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YSyNM4Jhdxo" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

<div class="responsive-embed widescreen">
	<iframe width="960" height="540" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/V4SNJ_qZWcM" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

# Unreal vs Polar

On our journey towards learning Unreal, we've come to realize that we made the right choice in porting our existing codebase over to it. Although Polar is a feat of engineering that I would love to continue to flesh out later down the line, we have to face the reality. It's simply not ready for prime time yet. Unreal is a fully developed game engine with countless ways of doing many different tasks, as well as a visual flow programming language (Blueprints) that I've loved using and has made me want to add something similar to Polar in the far future.

A day may come in the future when Polar is ready for its first big game project, but, for now, Unreal is simply a better choice if we really want to create our game.

# Next Steps

Our path forward over the next few weeks will be to learn more about how physics work in Unreal, and try to resolve the issues we've been seeing with them. We'd also love to start making decisions on how we want to do the levels in the game, as currently we just have a hardcoded default level that doesn't even reset once you beat it. What kind of a level is that?!

Thank you for sticking with us on our journey, as always, and, until next time, Äddi!

###### {{ page.author }}, Lead Programmer
