---
title: Week 37 Update
category: Draft
author: ⚡ Shockk
description: Battle Plan!
---

Welcome back to another Corporeality update!

It's safe to say that the past few weeks have been particularly difficult in terms of our project. Two weeks ago, 🦊 The Fox outlined that we've kind of lost our way with the project as well as that we need some kind of way forward for the future.

This week, we're going to share our thoughts and elaborate on what our battle plan is.

# Engine

As mentioned in our previous update, we've decided to move over to using Unreal Engine for Corporeality as it's a premade game engine that allows us to focus on just our game without the additional task of developing an engine around it.

Last week we spent some time learning how to use Unreal and we've begun to realize how much of a learning curve this will be for us. We did manage to replicate most of what Corporeality already had in Unreal now, but we can tell that there's still a lot left to learn before we see a clear path to the end goal.

# Battle Plan

We still want to work on Corporeality in the long term, but we've agreed now that our plan should be to try and get a few tech demos or simple games built in Unreal first, so that we can learn how to use the underlying engine effectively.

Last week I was able to build most of a really simple Pong tech demo and I'm hopiong to try out some other simple things in order to learn the basics.

We're also currently in talks about making a proper, simple, 2D game, whether it's a side-scroller, a breakout-style game, or otherwise. We think this'll help a lot as it'll give us a fresh project to work on as we learn Unreal in the meantime, allowing us then to transfer those skills over to Corporeality.

# Next Steps

The immediate plan is to finish our pong demo and churn out a few other really simple demos before anything else.

After this, we should have an idea of what kind of project we want to work on as we learn Unreal. We should definitely have something to write about on this next week, and we'll hopefully also have some cool tech demo(s) to show you.

Hopefully we've been able to give you some insight into our thought process, struggles, and plan for the future, and thank you so much for sticking with us on our journey.

Please do take note that our difficulties have been compounded lately due to the lockdown currently in effect in the UK, so we haven't been able to meet up and have had to do everything remotely. This is a trying time for people around the world, so please make sure to stay safe, both physically and mentally, and until our next update, viszontlátásra!

###### {{ page.author }}, Lead Programmer
