---
title: Week 49 Update
category: Draft
author: ⚡ Shockk
description: Burnout! Motivation! Battle Plan!
---

Welcome back to another 'weekly' Corporeality update! Before we talk about anything, we do want to apologize for not writing up a blog post last week. Unfortunately there hasn't really been anything for us to talk about recently due to a variety of reasons, the biggest of which being the constant struggling with demotivation during these trying times.

In order to refresh our motivation for the project, we need a solid battle plan as well as some way to manage the inevitable onslaught of burnout and lack of motivation.

# Development

Our first step will be to form a real development process. We need to find a better way to work, as well as to understand and (hopefully) eliminate burnout.

This might take the form of an agile-like approach where we work on mini sub-projects of the overall project every 2-3 weeks, or it might be something else. Either way, something like this will likely help us to balance the workload while avoiding mental overload on us.

# Project Plan

Part of implementing our new development process will involve defining clear goals, milestones, etc, for us to work towards, as well as prioritizing what to work on.

In a broader sense, what we will need to do is come up with a rough outline of how we actually want to complete the project. We'll probably end up defining most of our end product, as well as the milestones we should be working towards along the way.

# Design

Part of our development process that has been a little lacking up until now has been the design process. When we say design, we mean it in the more general sense to include things like user interface, game mechanics, level design, etc.

We need to put a higher focus on design moving forward, as ultimately the actual implementation of stuff into our game is directly affected by the decisions we should be making on the design of the game.

# Next Steps

Over the next 1-2 weeks, we're going to try our best to finalize and implement our battle plan, and (hopefully) by next week, we're aiming to have started using these new development processes to make a proper plan for our project from start to finish.

Thanks for continuing to stick with us during these times, and, as always, until next time, au revoir!

###### {{ page.author }}, Lead Programmer
