---
title: Week 35 Update
category: Draft
author: 🦊 The Fox
description: Tough decisions and a battle plan for the future.
---

First off, I would like to apologise for not doing a blog last week, a lot of things have been happening recently and game development really hasn't been at the forefront of our minds.  

But now that we've had time to look into development we've realised that some things need to change and some hard decisions need to be made.

# Focus

We've totally lost focus, development is all over the place and we're not making any progress in any kind of reasonable direction at any decent speed.  
Part of this issue we have attributed to most of our time being spent developing a game engine rather than a game.   

Polar has come a long way in 35 weeks, unfortunately ⚡ Shockk has had to spend a lot of time getting it to do some really simple things, whilst simultaneously trying to polish and optimise parts of the engine that were starting to perform sub-optimally or would be causing trouble in the future.  

Myself, I've not been able to focus on the story or the design document for quite some time.  
I need to work more on fleshing out what we have rather than adding more...

# The Engine

Ah yes, the elephant in the room...  
What about "Polar".  
Well, we've made the very difficult decision to no longer use Polar in this project.  
We were over-ambitious with the design and Polar just isn't all there yet for this particular game.  

So, what to use instead?  
After a day of research we have decided to migrate our entire design over to Unreal Engine 4.  
It's very mature technology, everyone on the project has some experience with UE, and we should be able to focus more on the design and important gameplay mechanics rather than having to worry about if the next model we import will appear inside out.  

This decision was far from easy, and we are really sad to have to make it. However, we will continue to work on Polar and perhaps we'll release something a little less ambitious with it to show off what it can really do!  

  

Thank you so much for sticking with us throughout the development of Corporeality,  
We hope we'll have something to show off next week!  
-{{ page.author }}, Project Manager