---
title: Week 32 Update
category: Development
author: 🦊 The Fox
description: Another sneak peek!
---

We've both had an incredibly busy week this week. So we've not got a lot of work done.  
However we got some work done over the weekend and have a test build up and ready for you to check out!

# Gimme Gimme!

Just hit the "[Releases](https://github.com/corporeality-space/release/releases)" button in the top right and you'll be taken to a page with the latest releases on it. As of this post, that should be Technical Preview 2 (v0.0.2).

# How do I fly this thing?

| Action             | Control            |
| ------------------ | ------------------ |
| Pitch & Yaw        | Mouse              |
| Forward            | W                  |
| Backward           | S                  |
| Strafe Left        | A                  |
| Strafe Right       | D                  |
| Roll Left          | Q                  |
| Roll Right         | E                  |
| Ascend             | Space              |
| Descend            | C                  |
| Fire Weapon        | Mouse 1 [LMB]      |
| Quit               | ESC                |
| Open/Close Console | Tilde ( \` or ~ )  |

# Can I play with the console?

Yes! Our engine has a rudimentary debug console that exposes limited engine functionality, with more features being added on a regular basis. Most of this won't be useful to you as a playtester but here are a couple of things that may prove useful or interesting.

```
system.renderer.fullscreen = 1
system.renderer.debugdraw  = 1
component.scale.z          = 5
engine.quit
```

###### ⚡ Shockk

# Changed Stuff

- Added missile flight time (2 seconds until death)
- Missiles now die on contact with asteroids
- Many renderer optimizations and general performance improvements
- Fixed mouse not working at framerates below 25 FPS
- Fixed subtle timing issues from frame to frame
- Fixed audio bugs (audio still disabled for now)
- Improved engine logging output (timestamps and categories now!)

# Broken Stuff!

This is still early days and we have a few bugs that we know about so far:  

- Master Server not Online (No Public Multiplayer)
- Reaching 0 health does not destroy ship
- Collisions are very basic (Spheres for days)
- Sounds work, but are disabled

If you have any other issues though, please reach out to us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CorporealityDev), we greatly appreciate it!

See you all next week!  
-{{ page.author }}, Project Manager
